In this lesson we're going to be talking
about the Kubernetes network model.
The Kubernetes network model is a set of standards
that define how networking between pods behaves.
We've talked about the Docker networking model
earlier in this course
and Kubernetes implements its own separate networking model.
So it's going to be important for you to have a basic
understanding of that model for the purposes
of the Docker Certified Associate.
So, let's talk about how the Kubernetes network model works.
This model defines how Kubernetes pods communicate
with each other
regardless of which node they're running on.
So I have a little diagram here where I have a couple
of nodes each running 1 or more pods.
So how are these pods going to communicate with each other
whether they are on the same node
or whether they are on different nodes?
Well, the Kubernetes model assigns each pod
its own unique IP address within the cluster.
Now this is an important distinction to understand,
the IP addresses are not unique to the node
they are unique to the entire cluster.
So regardless of which node a pod may be running on,
it's never going to share the same IP address
as any other pod in the cluster,
and what that means is that any pod can communicate
with any other pod simply using that pod's IP address.
What this does is it creates a virtual network.
So, this is what the Kubernetes network looks like.
If you look at my diagram here,
there really is nothing referencing the nodes
that these pods may be running on.
The pods might be running on separate nodes,
but they are all part of a single virtual network,
and the nodes are completely transparent to this network.
One pod can simply reach out to any other pod
on any other node simply by using the unique IP address
of that other pod.
So, that just gives you a basic idea
of what the Kubernetes network model looks like.
What you really need to know about that model
is that it includes a virtual network that encompasses
the entire cluster and pods can communicate with each other
transparently using their unique IP addresses
whether they are on the same node or on different nodes.
That's all for this lesson.
I'll see in the next one.