In this lesson,
we're going to be talking about sizing requirements
for Docker, UCP, and DTR.
This is just some basic information
that you might need to be familiar with
for the Docker Certified Associate.
So when it comes to Docker,
ultimately there really aren't specific sizing requirements.
It really depends on the workloads
that you're going to be running.
So when it comes to sizing Docker,
what you really just need to be aware of
is that you're going to need enough resources
to run the actual container workloads
that you're planning on running in Docker,
and that's really what's going to determine
the sizing requirements for Docker itself.
However, Universal Control Plane and Docker Trusted Registry
do have some specific system requirements.
You just need to be generally aware of these,
and when we're talking about Universal Control Plane,
we have a minimum of 8 GB memory
and 2 CPUs for manager nodes.
However, 16 GB and 4 CPUs are recommended.
So if you're just doing a simple cluster
for development purposes,
8 GB of memory and 2 CPUs,
but for most production applications,
you probably need at least 16 GB of memory
and 4 CPUs.
Again, that is specifically for the manager nodes.
The worker nodes have fewer requirements.
They just require at least 4 GB of memory
and the documentation doesn't specify a number of CPUs
for worker nodes,
so I'm assuming that we need at least 1 CPU.
Of course, you need at least 1 CPU
in order to do anything.
So the requirements for the worker nodes
are significantly less than the requirements
for the manager nodes in Universal Control Plane.
In Docker Trusted Registry,
we require a minimum of 16 GB of memory, 2 CPUs,
and 10 gigabytes of disk space,
and that makes sense
because Docker Trusted Registry is managing disk images.
You're going to need a significant amount of disk space
in order to manage and store those images.
However, the recommended settings
for Docker Trusted Registry are again 16 GB of memory,
but double the number of minimum CPUs,
at least 4 CPUs recommended,
and 25 to 100 GB of disk space.
So those are the system requirements
for Docker, UCP, and DTR.
You can find more information
about those in the documentation,
but you might just need to have some general awareness
of those requirements for the DCA.
That's all for this lesson. I'll see you in the next one.